# Intro to Serverless
---

## Cloud Computing Challenges

Cloud computing allows users to abstract portions of their digital systems away; like servers, databases, computational resources, and more. Instead of maintaining physical hardware for these components, users can rent them from cloud providers, connect over the internet, and pay on a per-use basis.

While the scaleability, flexibility, and cost savings this model offers has transformed the world of application development, it has also introduced challenges of its own.

Until recently, almost all cloud systems scaled by spinning virtual machines up and down to meet need. This was easier than pre-cloud solutions, but still required a lot of specialized labor, time, and resources.

As cloud technology continued to rapidly evolve in the last several decades, providers aimed to reduce this burden even further.

## Serverless Solutions

To address this, Amazon Web Services (AWS) launched the first major serverless product, [**Lambda**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html), in 2014. Microsoft Azure shortly followed, releasing [**Azure Functions**](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/) in 2016. Google Cloud Platform later announced [**Cloud Functions**](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs) in 2017.

They may sound complex, but these tools do something _very_ simple: Run a block of code in response to an event.

**_That's it. Really._**

The developer writes a modular function, deploys it to the cloud, and invokes it when needed. It runs only when called, and the user is charged on a pay-per-use model. This architecture is also referred to as **functions-as-a-Service (FaaS)**.

This allows engineers and software organizations to flexibly meet demand, only pay for what they need, and spend time that _would_ otherwise be consumed by server maintenance on more impactful work.

---

| [— 🏠 Home —](https://github.com/courtneyphillips/project-canis-educere) | [— Next  ➡️](./1.0_hands-on_project_introduction.md) |
| --- | --- |
