# Serverless Architecture
---

While cloud architecture transformed application development, it also introduced challenges of its own.

Most cloud systems used to scale by spinning virtual machines up and down to meet need. This was easier than pre-cloud solutions, but still required a lot of specialized labor, time, and computing resources. As cloud technology evolved, providers aimed to offer even more scaleable, flexible solutions.

## Advent of Functions-as-a-Service (FaaS)

In 2014, Amazon Web Services (AWS) launched the first major serverless product, **Lambda**. Microsoft Azure shortly followed, releasing Azure Functions in 2016. Google Cloud Platform followed with Cloud Functions in 2017.

They may sound complex, but these tools do something _very_ simple: Run a block of code in response to an event.

That's it. Really. The developer writes a modular block of code in a function, deploys it to the serverless cloud service, and invokes the function when it's needed. The function runs only when called, and the user is only charged based on the number of times the function runs, and the resources it consumes. This general architecture is also referred to as **function-as-a-Service (FaaS)**.

This allows engineers and software organizations to flexibly meet demand, only pay for what they need/use, and save time that might otherwise be spent managing servers.

## Growth And Future

And their popularity and usage continues to grow at a rapid rate.

The [2022 State of Serverless report from Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/state-of-serverless/) found that over 50 percent of their customers operating in major cloud providers are now adopting serverless.

[Datadog's 2022 Container Report](https://www.datadoghq.com/container-report/#1) also found that usage of serverless technologies from major cloud providers increased from 21 percent in 2020 to 36 percent in 2022

---

| [⬅️  Back —]() | [— 🏠 Home —](https://github.com/courtneyphillips/project-canis-educere) | [— Next  ➡️]() |
| --- | --- | --- |
