# The Rise of Cloud Computing

In order to fully grasp reasoning and context <better terms here> and system design decisions behind serverless programming, it's important to first understand the basic cloud computing trends, technologies, and offerings made available in recent years. Let's review:

## The Cloud

As you likely know, most all websites, apps, and technical infrastructure require (at bare minimum) the same general core ingredients:

- **Servers** to load up and offer their content, websites, and materials.
- **Storage** to retain information, such as user accounts, files, or whatever the
- **Resources** to run logic and calculations necessary for the core functionality of the program. Computing power, essentially.

Until recently, engineers and developers creating and maintaining these systems also had to create and maintain the hardware and software necessary for these core ingredients. That meant things like.... <server maintenance, etc.>

<creative commons photo of server racks, other infrastructure>

There were several major problems with this setup, including:

1. Scaleability:
2. Cost: <not only monetary cost, but time and resource spend maintaining these machines>
3. Portability:

The cloud gained traction as a response to all of these problems, and more. When we say 'the cloud' or "cloud computing" we are simply referring to offsite computational resources and infrastructure that are accessed over the internet as a service, managed by another party.

This means instead of a company, individual, or team managing their own hardware and computational resources---like the servers, storage, and resources we discussed earlier---they can outsource this infrastructure to another provider on-demand that maanages this infrastructure for them.

This system directly addresses each of the following problems we reviewed above:

1. Scaleability:
2. Cost:
3. Portability:

## Cloud Providers

Technically, cloud computing refers to any infrastructure in which teh maintenance of hardware and systems is abstracted away from the developer or engineer.

However, three main players ... Here's an overview of each

| Header One     | Header Two     | Header Three  | Header Four
| :------------- | :------------- |:------------- |
| Item One       | Item Two       |Item Two       |Item Two       |



<NAVIGATION>
