# Hands-On Project
---

Because serverless functions scale so readily, they can benefit individual developers as much as engineering teams.

In the rest of this module, we'll use serverless functions together in a hands-on project. We'll use Google Cloud Functions to automate compiling and delivering data.

This will allow us to explore technologies used by major companies, while simultaneously creating actual internal tooling that could be put to use in _almost any_ real life workplace today.

## Scenario

### Who

For the sake of our project, we'll assume the role of a Customer Education team at a SaaS company. This team delivers certification programs and exams in the company's Learning Management System (LMS).

### What

We'll also assume that a wide variety of folks rely on these certification programs. End users become certified to ensure they're making the most of the product, of course. But internal Support, Solution Engineering, and Product teams also require certification during onboarding. Folks in Sales may point prospects toward certs as a selling point, or recommend them to existing accounts risking of churn. Partners also use them to train their own teams. Even Marketing occasionally centers a campaign around the programs.

### Why

And each party wants LMS data from the certification programs. A customer account may want to see their engineers' certification progress. Partners and teams using it in onboarding want performance and progress reports, Marketing wants to quantify the impact of their latest campaign, etc., etc.

But...hmm...granting everyone admin access to view data isn't ideal. It's too risky, might break security policy, and provisioning accounts and training folks will be a heavy lift....

And manually compiling and delivering reports whenever they're requested is slowing down your already-busy team.

### How

The solution? Use serverless functions to quickly spin up a self-serve reporting workflow: Allow stakeholders to submit requests through a form, and receive an email report on-demand.

## Project Preview

So, using Google Cloud Functions' serverless capability, and a few other
free tools, we're going to achieve this by doing the following:

- [ ] Create a Google Form for stakeholders to request data outlining how learners on different teams and orgs are progressing in their certification programs.
- [ ] Invoke a serverless Google Cloud function when the form receives a new submission.
- [ ] Automatically query the LMS for relevant data from the Google Cloud Function.
- [ ] Programmatically collate and format this data into a readable report for the original requestor.
- [ ] Automatically email the report to the original requestor via API

Ready? Click through to the next lesson to begin your own serverless cloud project!

---

| [⬅️  Back —]() | [— 🏠 Home —](https://github.com/courtneyphillips/project-canis-educere) | [— Next  ➡️]() |
| --- | --- | --- |
