# Conclusion & Next Steps
---

After following along with all previous lessons in this module, we learned how to:

- Create and invoke event-based triggers in Google Apps Scripts
- Follow best practices to obfuscate sensitive values in Google Cloud Platform using Google Cloud Secrets Manager
- Construct automated workflows across multiple APIs in Google Cloud Functions
- Create, configure, and access a new project in Google Cloud Platform
- Author and deploy a Cloud Functions in JavaScript and Node.js
- Access, review, and analyze execution logs for Google Apps Script and Cloud Functions
- Create, execute, and manage interdependent HTTP GET and POST requests in Cloud Functions
- Manage sensitive data in cloud projects using using Google Secrets Manager

## Further Exploration

However, just because our tutorial is done, doesn't mean your project must be! Consider independently building upon today's project. Here are some ideas to get you started:

* Try calculating more **actionable or visual metrics** in the email report. Can you calculate interesting metrics off of our learner data before sending it via email? (e.g. the percentage of learners who are certified in each organization, or in each topic?)
* Can you **customize the reports and form** to only offer the metrics the requestor is most interested in?
* The SendGrid API offers features for dynamic dtemplating and formatting. Can you make the reports **look nicer**?
* Authentication was out of scope for this tutorial; can you update your project to ensure only **authenticated requests** can access the cloud function?
* Are there other interesting APIs you could query to make these reports more interesting?
* Could metrics here be used to create a new Google Data Studio report, instead of a plaintext email?


---

| [⬅️  Back —](./5.2_sending_emails_via_api.md) | [— 🏠 Home —](https://github.com/courtneyphillips/project-canis-educere) |
| --- | --- |
